README.md, before:

# Tasklog

An interactive CLI tool for tracking time on Jira tasks with seamless integration to Jira Cloud API and Tempo.

> 🤖 **Built entirely with GitHub Copilot** - This project was created from scratch using AI pair programming, demonstrating the power of AI-assisted development.

## Features

- 🎯 **Interactive Task Selection**: List your in-progress tasks or search for any task
- 🔍 **Project Filtering**: Optionally filter tasks to a specific Jira project
- ⏱️ **Flexible Time Entry**: Support for multiple time formats (2h 30m, 2.5h, 150m)
- 🏷️ **Label Management**: Configure and use labels for categorizing work
- ⚡ **Shortcuts**: Define shortcuts for repetitive tasks (perfect for cronjobs)
- ⏸️ **Break Management**: Register breaks with automatic Slack status updates and channel notifications
- 💬 **Slack Integration**: Update status and post messages when taking breaks (optional)
- 💾 **Local Cache**: SQLite database keeps track of all entries locally
- 📤 **Jira Sync**: Automatically logs time to Jira (which syncs to Tempo if installed)
- 📊 **Daily Summary**: View your logged time from Tempo (source of truth)
- 🔁 **Sync Recovery**: Retry failed syncs with the sync command

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher (only for building from source)
- Access to Jira Cloud with API token
- Tempo API token
- (Optional) Slack bot token for break notifications

### Download Pre-built Binary

Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog/releases):

```bash
# Example for macOS (replace with your platform and version)
curl -LO https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog/releases/download/v1.0.0/tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64
chmod +x tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64
sudo mv tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64 /usr/local/bin/tasklog
```

Available platforms: Linux and macOS (amd64 and arm64)

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog.git
cd tasklog
make go-build    # Build the binary to bin/tasklog
```

Or build manually:

```bash
go build -o bin/tasklog
```

### Using Docker

```bash
# Pull the latest image
docker pull ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest

# Run with your config and database mounted
docker run -v ~/.tasklog:/home/tasklog/.tasklog ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest log

# Or run with specific config file
docker run \
  -v ~/.tasklog/config.yaml:/home/tasklog/.tasklog/config.yaml \
  -v ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db:/home/tasklog/.tasklog/tasklog.db \
  ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest log
```

## Quick Start

1. **Download (or Build) the binary**

2. **Initialize configuration:**
   ```bash
   ./bin/tasklog init
   ```

3. **Edit config file with your credentials:**
   ```bash
   vim ~/.tasklog/config.yaml
   ```
   - Add your Jira URL, username, and API token
   - Add your Tempo API token
   - Optionally configure labels and shortcuts

4. **Start logging time:**
   ```bash
   ./bin/tasklog log
   ```

That's it! The tool will guide you through the rest.

## Configuration

### Quick Setup

Initialize tasklog with a template configuration:

```bash
tasklog init
```

This creates `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` with an example configuration. Edit it with your credentials.

### Manual Setup

Create a configuration file at `~/.tasklog/config.yaml`:

```yaml
jira:
  url: "https://your-domain.atlassian.net"
  username: "your-email@example.com"
  api_token: "your-jira-api-token"
  project_key: "PROJ"  # Project key to filter tasks (required)

# Optional: Tempo configuration (only if logging separately to Tempo)
# If your Jira uses Tempo for worklog tracking, leave this disabled
tempo:
  enabled: false  # Set to true only if you need separate Tempo logging
  api_token: ""   # Only required if enabled is true

# Optional: Filter labels that can be used for time logging
# If not specified, labels will need to be entered manually
labels:
  allowed_labels:
    - "development"
    - "code-review"
    - "meeting"
    - "testing"
    - "documentation"
    - "bug-fix"

# Optional: Define shortcuts for quick time logging
# Shortcuts allow you to quickly log time without interactive prompts
shortcuts:
  - name: "daily"
    task: "PROJ-123"
    time: "30m"
    label: "meeting"
  
  - name: "standup"
    task: "PROJ-123"
    time: "15m"
    label: "meeting"
  
  - name: "code-review"
    task: "PROJ-456"
    # time not specified - will prompt user
    label: "code-review"

# Optional: Database path (defaults to ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db)
database:
  path: ""

# Optional: Slack integration for break notifications
slack:
  user_token: "xoxp-your-slack-user-token"  # User OAuth Token (not Bot Token)
  channel_id: "C1234567890"  # Channel ID for break messages

# Optional: Define break types for quick break registration
breaks:
  - name: "lunch"
    duration: 60
    emoji: ":fork_and_knife:"
  
  - name: "prayer"
    duration: 15
    emoji: ":pray:"
  
  - name: "coffee"
    duration: 10
    emoji: ":coffee:"
```

## Getting API Tokens

### Jira Configuration

**Finding Your Jira URL:**
- Your Jira Cloud URL is typically: `https://your-domain.atlassian.net`
- Example: `https://mycompany.atlassian.net`

**Getting Jira API Token:**
1. Go to https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a descriptive name (e.g., "Tasklog CLI")
4. Copy the token immediately (you won't be able to see it again)

**Your Jira Username:**
- Use the email address associated with your Jira account
- Example: `your-email@example.com`

**Project Key:**
- This filters tasks to a specific Jira project
- Found in task IDs (e.g., `PROJ-123` → project key is `PROJ`)
- Or check your Jira project settings

### Tempo Configuration

**Important:** Tasklog logs time **only to Jira**. When Tempo is installed in your Jira workspace, Jira automatically creates corresponding Tempo worklogs.

The Tempo API token is **required** because:
- The `summary` command fetches logged time **only from Tempo** (not Jira)
- Tempo serves as the source of truth for your time tracking data
- This allows accurate comparison between local cache and actual logged time

**Getting Tempo API Token:**
1. In Jira, go to **Tempo** in the top navigation
2. Click **Settings** (gear icon)
3. Select **API Integration** from the left sidebar
4. Click **New Token**
5. Give it a name (e.g., "Tasklog CLI")
6. Copy the generated token and add it to your config

**Configuration Options:**
- `tempo.enabled: true` - Tasklog will fetch and display Tempo worklogs in the summary
- `tempo.enabled: false` - Tasklog will not fetch Tempo data (you won't see summary information)

**Note:** Tempo must be installed in your Jira workspace for time tracking to work properly

**Slack User Token (Optional for break notifications):**
1. Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
2. Create a new app or select existing
3. Go to "OAuth & Permissions"
4. Add **Bot Token Scopes**: `chat:write`
5. Add **User Token Scopes**: `users.profile:write`
6. Install/Reinstall app to workspace
7. Copy the **"User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxp-`) - **not** the Bot Token
8. Add it to your config under `slack.user_token`
9. Get channel ID by right-clicking channel > View channel details
10. Invite the bot to the channel: `/invite @YourBotName`

### Slack Setup (Optional)

Slack integration is required only if you want to use the `tasklog break` command to automatically update your Slack status and post break notifications to a channel.

#### Creating a Slack App

1. **Visit Slack API Dashboard**
   - Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
   - Click "Create New App"
   - Choose "From scratch"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "Tasklog Break Notifications")
   - Select your workspace

2. **Configure OAuth & Permissions**
   - In the left sidebar, click "OAuth & Permissions"
   - Scroll down to "Scopes"
   - Under **"Bot Token Scopes"**, add:
     - `chat:write` - **Required:** Post messages to channels
   - Under **"User Token Scopes"**, add:
     - `users.profile:write` - **Required:** Update your own status
   
   **Important:** You need BOTH bot and user scopes for break notifications to work fully

3. **Install App to Workspace**
   - Scroll to the top of the "OAuth & Permissions" page
   - Click "Install to Workspace"
   - Review permissions and click "Allow"

4. **Get Your Bot Token**
   - After installation, you'll see both tokens:
     - **"Bot User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxb-`) - for posting messages
     - **"User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxp-`) - for updating status
   - Use the **User OAuth Token** (`xoxp-`) in your config
   - Add it to your `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` under `slack.user_token`

5. **Get Channel ID**
   - In Slack, right-click the channel where you want break notifications
   - Select "View channel details"
   - Scroll down to find the Channel ID (e.g., `C1234567890`)
   - Add it to your `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` under `slack.channel_id`

6. **Invite Bot to Channel**
   - In the Slack channel, type: `/invite @YourBotName`
   - This allows the bot to post messages

#### Testing Slack Integration

After configuration, test it with:

```bash
tasklog break coffee
```

You should see:
- Your Slack status updated with coffee emoji
- A message posted in the configured channel
- Status automatically cleared after the break duration

## Usage

### Interactive Mode

Log time interactively (recommended for first-time use):

```bash
tasklog log
```

This will:
1. Show your in-progress Jira tasks
2. Let you select a task (or search/enter manually)
3. Prompt for time spent
4. Prompt for a label
5. Ask for an optional comment
6. Confirm before logging
7. Log to Jira (automatically syncs to Tempo)
8. Show today's summary from Tempo

### Using Shortcuts

Log time quickly using predefined shortcuts as subcommands:

```bash
# Use shortcut with predefined time
tasklog log daily

# Use shortcut but override the time
tasklog log daily --time 45m

# Use different shortcut
tasklog log standup
```

### Command-Line Flags

Skip interactive prompts by providing values via flags:

```bash
# Log 2.5 hours to a specific task
tasklog log --task PROJ-123 --time 2.5h --label development

# Short form
tasklog log -t PROJ-123 -d 2h30m -l bug-fix
```

### View Summary

See today's logged time:

```bash
tasklog summary
```

### Register a Break

Take a break and automatically update Slack status and post a message:

```bash
# Take a lunch break (updates Slack status and posts message)
tasklog break lunch

# Take a prayer break
tasklog break prayer

# Take a coffee break
tasklog break coffee
```

This will:
1. Update your Slack status with the break emoji and duration
2. Post a formatted message in the configured channel (e.g., "🔔 Taking a *lunch break* — Back in 60 minutes at *2:30 PM*")
3. Set Slack status to auto-expire after the break duration
4. Display confirmation with return time

**Example Slack Message:**
```
🔔 Taking a lunch break — Back in 60 minutes at 2:30 PM
```

**Note:** Slack integration is optional. If not configured, the break will be registered locally but Slack won't be updated.
tasklog summary

Example output:
```
═══════════════════════════════════════════
Today's Summary (3 entries)
═══════════════════════════════════════════
✓ 09:00 - 2h         [development] PROJ-123
✓ 11:30 - 30m        [meeting] PROJ-456
✓ 14:00 - 1h 30m     [code-review] PROJ-789
───────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 4h
═══════════════════════════════════════════
```

### Sync Failed Entries

If logging to Jira or Tempo fails, entries are saved locally. Retry syncing:

```bash
tasklog sync
```

## Time Format Support

Tasklog supports multiple time formats, all rounded to the nearest 5 minutes:

- `2h 30m` - Hours and minutes with space
- `2h30m` - Hours and minutes without space
- `2.5h` - Decimal hours
- `150m` - Minutes only
- `2h` - Hours only

Examples:
- `2h 32m` → rounded to `2h 30m` (150 minutes)
- `2h 27m` → rounded to `2h 25m` (145 minutes)
- `1m` → rounded to `5m`

## Shortcuts for Automation

Shortcuts are perfect for cronjobs or repetitive tasks:

```bash
# Add to crontab for daily standup at 9:30 AM
30 9 * * 1-5 /usr/local/bin/tasklog log daily
```

If time is not predefined in the shortcut, the command will prompt for it.

## Troubleshooting

### Config file not found

```bash
# Check if config directory exists
ls ~/.tasklog/

# Create config from example
cp config.example.yaml ~/.tasklog/config.yaml
# Then edit with your credentials
```

### Database errors

```bash
# Check database file
ls -la ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db

# Remove and recreate (WARNING: loses local data)
rm ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db
tasklog log  # Will recreate on first use
```

### API authentication errors

- Verify your Jira URL (should end with .atlassian.net)
- Ensure API tokens are valid and not expired
- Check that your Jira username is correct (usually your email)
- Verify Tempo is installed in your Jira instance

### Enable debug logging

Set the log level to debug for more verbose output:

```bash
# Edit main.go and change:
zerolog.SetGlobalLevel(zerolog.DebugLevel)
```

## Environment Variables

- `TASKLOG_CONFIG` - Path to config file (default: `~/.tasklog/config.yaml`)
- `TASKLOG_LOG_LEVEL` - Set to `debug` for verbose logging (default: `info`)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit issues or pull requests.

## About This Project

This entire project was built using **GitHub Copilot** as an AI pair programming partner. From initial concept to full implementation, every line of code, configuration, test, and documentation was created through natural language conversations and AI assistance.

### What Was Built:
- Complete Go CLI application with Cobra framework
- Jira Cloud REST API v3 integration
- Tempo API v4 integration  
- Slack API integration for break notifications
- SQLite local caching with sync recovery
- Interactive prompts with survey library
- Comprehensive test suite (83.9% coverage on core logic)
- Full documentation and examples

This project showcases how AI-assisted development can rapidly create production-ready tools with proper architecture, error handling, testing, and documentation.

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) for CLI framework
- Uses [Survey](https://github.com/AlecAivazis/survey) for interactive prompts
- Logging with [Zerolog](https://github.com/rs/zerolog)
- SQLite integration via [go-sqlite3](https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3)

Commit message:

feat(jira): add option to filter jira status

README.md, after:

# Tasklog

An interactive CLI tool for tracking time on Jira tasks with seamless integration to Jira Cloud API and Tempo.

> 🤖 **Built entirely with GitHub Copilot** - This project was created from scratch using AI pair programming, demonstrating the power of AI-assisted development.

## Features

- 🎯 **Interactive Task Selection**: List your in-progress tasks (configurable statuses) or search for any task
- 🔍 **Project Filtering**: Optionally filter tasks to a specific Jira project
- ⏱️ **Flexible Time Entry**: Support for multiple time formats (2h 30m, 2.5h, 150m)
- 🏷️ **Label Management**: Configure and use labels for categorizing work
- ⚡ **Shortcuts**: Define shortcuts for repetitive tasks (perfect for cronjobs)
- ⏸️ **Break Management**: Register breaks with automatic Slack status updates and channel notifications
- 💬 **Slack Integration**: Update status and post messages when taking breaks (optional)
- 💾 **Local Cache**: SQLite database keeps track of all entries locally
- 📤 **Jira Sync**: Automatically logs time to Jira (which syncs to Tempo if installed)
- 📊 **Daily Summary**: View your logged time from Tempo (source of truth)
- 🔁 **Sync Recovery**: Retry failed syncs with the sync command

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher (only for building from source)
- Access to Jira Cloud with API token
- Tempo API token
- (Optional) Slack bot token for break notifications

### Download Pre-built Binary

Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog/releases):

```bash
# Example for macOS (replace with your platform and version)
curl -LO https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog/releases/download/v1.0.0/tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64
chmod +x tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64
sudo mv tasklog_v1.0.0_darwin_amd64 /usr/local/bin/tasklog
```

Available platforms: Linux and macOS (amd64 and arm64)

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/binsabbar/tasklog.git
cd tasklog
make go-build    # Build the binary to bin/tasklog
```

Or build manually:

```bash
go build -o bin/tasklog
```

### Using Docker

```bash
# Pull the latest image
docker pull ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest

# Run with your config and database mounted
docker run -v ~/.tasklog:/home/tasklog/.tasklog ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest log

# Or run with specific config file
docker run \
  -v ~/.tasklog/config.yaml:/home/tasklog/.tasklog/config.yaml \
  -v ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db:/home/tasklog/.tasklog/tasklog.db \
  ghcr.io/binsabbar/tasklog:latest log
```

## Quick Start

1. **Download (or Build) the binary**

2. **Initialize configuration:**
   ```bash
   ./bin/tasklog init
   ```

3. **Edit config file with your credentials:**
   ```bash
   vim ~/.tasklog/config.yaml
   ```
   - Add your Jira URL, username, and API token
   - Add your Tempo API token
   - Optionally configure labels and shortcuts

4. **Start logging time:**
   ```bash
   ./bin/tasklog log
   ```

That's it! The tool will guide you through the rest.

## Configuration

### Quick Setup

Initialize tasklog with a template configuration:

```bash
tasklog init
```

This creates `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` with an example configuration. Edit it with your credentials.

### Manual Setup

Create a configuration file at `~/.tasklog/config.yaml`:

```yaml
jira:
  url: "https://your-domain.atlassian.net"
  username: "your-email@example.com"
  api_token: "your-jira-api-token"
  project_key: "PROJ"  # Project key to filter tasks (required)
  task_statuses:
    - "In Progress"
    - "In Review"

# Optional: Tempo configuration (only if logging separately to Tempo)
# If your Jira uses Tempo for worklog tracking, leave this disabled
tempo:
  enabled: false  # Set to true only if you need separate Tempo logging
  api_token: ""   # Only required if enabled is true

# Optional: Filter labels that can be used for time logging
# If not specified, labels will need to be entered manually
labels:
  allowed_labels:
    - "development"
    - "code-review"
    - "meeting"
    - "testing"
    - "documentation"
    - "bug-fix"

# Optional: Define shortcuts for quick time logging
# Shortcuts allow you to quickly log time without interactive prompts
shortcuts:
  - name: "daily"
    task: "PROJ-123"
    time: "30m"
    label: "meeting"
  
  - name: "standup"
    task: "PROJ-123"
    time: "15m"
    label: "meeting"
  
  - name: "code-review"
    task: "PROJ-456"
    # time not specified - will prompt user
    label: "code-review"

# Optional: Database path (defaults to ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db)
database:
  path: ""

# Optional: Slack integration for break notifications
slack:
  user_token: "xoxp-your-slack-user-token"  # User OAuth Token (not Bot Token)
  channel_id: "C1234567890"  # Channel ID for break messages

# Optional: Define break types for quick break registration
breaks:
  - name: "lunch"
    duration: 60
    emoji: ":fork_and_knife:"
  
  - name: "prayer"
    duration: 15
    emoji: ":pray:"
  
  - name: "coffee"
    duration: 10
    emoji: ":coffee:"
```

## Getting API Tokens

### Jira Configuration

**Finding Your Jira URL:**
- Your Jira Cloud URL is typically: `https://your-domain.atlassian.net`
- Example: `https://mycompany.atlassian.net`

**Getting Jira API Token:**
1. Go to https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a descriptive name (e.g., "Tasklog CLI")
4. Copy the token immediately (you won't be able to see it again)

**Your Jira Username:**
- Use the email address associated with your Jira account
- Example: `your-email@example.com`

**Project Key:**
- This filters tasks to a specific Jira project
- Found in task IDs (e.g., `PROJ-123` → project key is `PROJ`)
- Or check your Jira project settings

**Task Statuses (Optional):**
- By default, tasklog shows tasks with status "In Progress"
- You can configure additional statuses to include (e.g., "In Review", "Testing")
- Add to config:
  ```yaml
  jira:
    task_statuses:
      - "In Progress"
      - "In Review"
  ```
- If not specified, defaults to `["In Progress"]`

### Tempo Configuration

**Important:** Tasklog logs time **only to Jira**. When Tempo is installed in your Jira workspace, Jira automatically creates corresponding Tempo worklogs.

The Tempo API token is **required** because:
- The `summary` command fetches logged time **only from Tempo** (not Jira)
- Tempo serves as the source of truth for your time tracking data
- This allows accurate comparison between local cache and actual logged time

**Getting Tempo API Token:**
1. In Jira, go to **Tempo** in the top navigation
2. Click **Settings** (gear icon)
3. Select **API Integration** from the left sidebar
4. Click **New Token**
5. Give it a name (e.g., "Tasklog CLI")
6. Copy the generated token and add it to your config

**Configuration Options:**
- `tempo.enabled: true` - Tasklog will fetch and display Tempo worklogs in the summary
- `tempo.enabled: false` - Tasklog will not fetch Tempo data (you won't see summary information)

**Note:** Tempo must be installed in your Jira workspace for time tracking to work properly

**Slack User Token (Optional for break notifications):**
1. Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
2. Create a new app or select existing
3. Go to "OAuth & Permissions"
4. Add **Bot Token Scopes**: `chat:write`
5. Add **User Token Scopes**: `users.profile:write`
6. Install/Reinstall app to workspace
7. Copy the **"User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxp-`) - **not** the Bot Token
8. Add it to your config under `slack.user_token`
9. Get channel ID by right-clicking channel > View channel details
10. Invite the bot to the channel: `/invite @YourBotName`

### Slack Setup (Optional)

Slack integration is required only if you want to use the `tasklog break` command to automatically update your Slack status and post break notifications to a channel.

#### Creating a Slack App

1. **Visit Slack API Dashboard**
   - Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
   - Click "Create New App"
   - Choose "From scratch"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "Tasklog Break Notifications")
   - Select your workspace

2. **Configure OAuth & Permissions**
   - In the left sidebar, click "OAuth & Permissions"
   - Scroll down to "Scopes"
   - Under **"Bot Token Scopes"**, add:
     - `chat:write` - **Required:** Post messages to channels
   - Under **"User Token Scopes"**, add:
     - `users.profile:write` - **Required:** Update your own status
   
   **Important:** You need BOTH bot and user scopes for break notifications to work fully

3. **Install App to Workspace**
   - Scroll to the top of the "OAuth & Permissions" page
   - Click "Install to Workspace"
   - Review permissions and click "Allow"

4. **Get Your Bot Token**
   - After installation, you'll see both tokens:
     - **"Bot User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxb-`) - for posting messages
     - **"User OAuth Token"** (starts with `xoxp-`) - for updating status
   - Use the **User OAuth Token** (`xoxp-`) in your config
   - Add it to your `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` under `slack.user_token`

5. **Get Channel ID**
   - In Slack, right-click the channel where you want break notifications
   - Select "View channel details"
   - Scroll down to find the Channel ID (e.g., `C1234567890`)
   - Add it to your `~/.tasklog/config.yaml` under `slack.channel_id`

6. **Invite Bot to Channel**
   - In the Slack channel, type: `/invite @YourBotName`
   - This allows the bot to post messages

#### Testing Slack Integration

After configuration, test it with:

```bash
tasklog break coffee
```

You should see:
- Your Slack status updated with coffee emoji
- A message posted in the configured channel
- Status automatically cleared after the break duration

## Usage

### Interactive Mode

Log time interactively (recommended for first-time use):

```bash
tasklog log
```

This will:
1. Show your in-progress Jira tasks
2. Let you select a task (or search/enter manually)
3. Prompt for time spent
4. Prompt for a label
5. Ask for an optional comment
6. Confirm before logging
7. Log to Jira (automatically syncs to Tempo)
8. Show today's summary from Tempo

### Using Shortcuts

Log time quickly using predefined shortcuts as subcommands:

```bash
# Use shortcut with predefined time
tasklog log daily

# Use shortcut but override the time
tasklog log daily --time 45m

# Use different shortcut
tasklog log standup
```

### Command-Line Flags

Skip interactive prompts by providing values via flags:

```bash
# Log 2.5 hours to a specific task
tasklog log --task PROJ-123 --time 2.5h --label development

# Short form
tasklog log -t PROJ-123 -d 2h30m -l bug-fix
```

### View Summary

See today's logged time:

```bash
tasklog summary
```

### Register a Break

Take a break and automatically update Slack status and post a message:

```bash
# Take a lunch break (updates Slack status and posts message)
tasklog break lunch

# Take a prayer break
tasklog break prayer

# Take a coffee break
tasklog break coffee
```

This will:
1. Update your Slack status with the break emoji and duration
2. Post a formatted message in the configured channel (e.g., "🔔 Taking a *lunch break* — Back in 60 minutes at *2:30 PM*")
3. Set Slack status to auto-expire after the break duration
4. Display confirmation with return time

**Example Slack Message:**
```
🔔 Taking a lunch break — Back in 60 minutes at 2:30 PM
```

**Note:** Slack integration is optional. If not configured, the break will be registered locally but Slack won't be updated.
tasklog summary

Example output:
```
═══════════════════════════════════════════
Today's Summary (3 entries)
═══════════════════════════════════════════
✓ 09:00 - 2h         [development] PROJ-123
✓ 11:30 - 30m        [meeting] PROJ-456
✓ 14:00 - 1h 30m     [code-review] PROJ-789
───────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 4h
═══════════════════════════════════════════
```

### Sync Failed Entries

If logging to Jira or Tempo fails, entries are saved locally. Retry syncing:

```bash
tasklog sync
```

## Time Format Support

Tasklog supports multiple time formats, all rounded to the nearest 5 minutes:

- `2h 30m` - Hours and minutes with space
- `2h30m` - Hours and minutes without space
- `2.5h` - Decimal hours
- `150m` - Minutes only
- `2h` - Hours only

Examples:
- `2h 32m` → rounded to `2h 30m` (150 minutes)
- `2h 27m` → rounded to `2h 25m` (145 minutes)
- `1m` → rounded to `5m`

## Shortcuts for Automation

Shortcuts are perfect for cronjobs or repetitive tasks:

```bash
# Add to crontab for daily standup at 9:30 AM
30 9 * * 1-5 /usr/local/bin/tasklog log daily
```

If time is not predefined in the shortcut, the command will prompt for it.

## Troubleshooting

### Config file not found

```bash
# Check if config directory exists
ls ~/.tasklog/

# Create config from example
cp config.example.yaml ~/.tasklog/config.yaml
# Then edit with your credentials
```

### Database errors

```bash
# Check database file
ls -la ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db

# Remove and recreate (WARNING: loses local data)
rm ~/.tasklog/tasklog.db
tasklog log  # Will recreate on first use
```

### API authentication errors

- Verify your Jira URL (should end with .atlassian.net)
- Ensure API tokens are valid and not expired
- Check that your Jira username is correct (usually your email)
- Verify Tempo is installed in your Jira instance

### Enable debug logging

Set the log level to debug for more verbose output:

```bash
# Edit main.go and change:
zerolog.SetGlobalLevel(zerolog.DebugLevel)
```

## Environment Variables

- `TASKLOG_CONFIG` - Path to config file (default: `~/.tasklog/config.yaml`)
- `TASKLOG_LOG_LEVEL` - Set to `debug` for verbose logging (default: `info`)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit issues or pull requests.

## About This Project

This entire project was built using **GitHub Copilot** as an AI pair programming partner. From initial concept to full implementation, every line of code, configuration, test, and documentation was created through natural language conversations and AI assistance.

### What Was Built:
- Complete Go CLI application with Cobra framework
- Jira Cloud REST API v3 integration
- Tempo API v4 integration  
- Slack API integration for break notifications
- SQLite local caching with sync recovery
- Interactive prompts with survey library
- Comprehensive test suite (83.9% coverage on core logic)
- Full documentation and examples

This project showcases how AI-assisted development can rapidly create production-ready tools with proper architecture, error handling, testing, and documentation.

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) for CLI framework
- Uses [Survey](https://github.com/AlecAivazis/survey) for interactive prompts
- Logging with [Zerolog](https://github.com/rs/zerolog)
- SQLite integration via [go-sqlite3](https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3)
